Add performance_tuning to jetty/tutorials (#683)
ignitionrobotics/docs: jetty/performance_tuning.md

by identifying which part of the workload is expensive. A world with many
contacts is tuned differently from a world dominated by cameras, lidar, or
rendering.

## Measure first

Before changing settings, enable the world statistics tools described in
[SDF Worlds](sdf_worlds). In particular, keep an eye on:

* real time factor (RTF)
* simulation time versus real time
* whether the slowdown appears when physics, sensors, or rendering load changes

This gives you a baseline before you start trading fidelity for speed.

## Common performance tweaks

### Reduce physics work

* Try less aggressive physics settings in [SDF Worlds](sdf_worlds). Larger
  `<max_step_size>` values usually reduce computation, but they also reduce
  accuracy and can change contact behavior.
* Use simpler collision geometry when possible. [Building your own robot](building_robot)
  notes that collision geometry does not need to match the visual mesh exactly,
  and simpler collisions often reduce computation time.

### Reduce sensor work

* Lower `<update_rate>` for sensors that do not need high-frequency data. See
  [Sensors](sensors).

> * Turn off visualization when you do not need it.

Reviewer: Meaning, do not run GUI? You could suggest the `-s` flag to `gz sim` here.

* For lidar, reduce the number of samples or resolution before increasing scene
  complexity.

> * If a GPU-backed lidar fits your use case, consider `gpu_lidar` in

Reviewer: CPU lidar is not (yet) available.

  [Sensors](sensors). Its availability and performance depend on rendering
  engine support and your GPU / driver setup.

### Reduce rendering work

> * Jetty uses Ogre 2 by default. If you are forcing Ogre 1, compare it with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Gazebo uses Ogre 2 by default. If you are forcing Ogre 1, compare it with the
```

  default first. If Ogre 2 is unavailable on your machine, [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting)
  explains the OpenGL requirements and how to fall back to `--render-engine ogre`.
* Reduce expensive visual effects when they are not needed. For example, disable

>   shadow casting on lights with `<cast_shadows>false</cast_shadows>` and prefer

Reviewer: It would be nice to give either a pointer to which tag is the parent for this one, or add a direct link to SDF spec.

  simpler materials if rendering is the bottleneck.

> * If your scene uses PBR materials and rendering is the bottleneck, test simpler

Reviewer: This needs expansion. How do users recognize PBR materials? How to substitute them with the simpler ones?

  materials or Ogre 1 as a comparison point. PBR is supported by render engines
  such as Ogre 2, but it is not free.

### Use simpler models

> * Reduce triangle counts in imported meshes.

Reviewer: Use primitive collision shapes whenever possible.

> * Keep visual meshes and collision meshes separate so collisions can stay simple

Reviewer: Make sure collision meshes are convex and watertight.

  even when the visual model is detailed.
* Remove sensors, lights, or plugins from models that are not needed in a given
  experiment.

### Make sure Gazebo is using the right GPU

> * On hybrid Intel / Nvidia systems, Gazebo may start on the integrated GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On hybrid systems with both integrated and discrete GPUs, Gazebo may start on the integrated GPU.
```

  [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting) shows how to use PRIME render offload or
  Nvidia performance mode.

> * If Ogre 2 fails to start, check OpenGL support and driver setup before

Reviewer: Provide an example command to check it. E.g. `glxinfo | grep GL`
